OSDOCS-18179-bug-batch-monitoring-4-22 RNs (#112583)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/rn-ocp-release-notes-fixed-issues.adoc

// [id="rn-ocp-release-note-management-console-fixed-issues_{context}"]
// == Management Console

[id="rn-ocp-release-note-monitoring-fixed-issues_{context}"]
== Monitoring

> * Before this update, a regression introduced in version {product-title} 4.15 impacted the `AlertingRule` logic, leading to inaccurate processing of alert definitions. This regression caused the system to generate duplicate alerts for the same event, causing it to misinterpret alert definitions and cluttered monitoring dashboards. With this release, the underlying regression has been resolved, restoring the intended behavior and logic to the `AlertingRule` component. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-61262[OCPBUGS-61262])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Before this update, a regression introduced in {product-title} version 4.15 impacted the `AlertingRule` logic, leading to inaccurate processing of alert definitions. This regression caused the system to generate duplicate alerts for the same event, causing it to misinterpret alert definitions and cluttered monitoring dashboards. With this release, the underlying regression has been resolved, restoring the intended behavior and logic to the `AlertingRule` component. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-61262[OCPBUGS-61262])
```

Author: Done

* Before this update, the minimal collection profile did not have the `kube_pod_labels` metric included, which affected the *Control Plane* panel in the Console dashboard. With this release, the panel works as expected. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-66069[OCPBUGS-66069])

* Before this update, the user workload Prometheus Operator did not validate the `webhookURL` secret reference in the MSTeams receiver configuration of the `AlertmanagerConfig` custom resource. As a consequence, an invalid or missing `webhookURL` secret could be accepted, causing the user workload `Alertmanager` to crash at runtime. With this release, the user workload Prometheus Operator validates the `webhookURL` secret for MSTeams receivers, rejecting invalid configurations before they can affect the `Alertmanager`. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-67303[OCPBUGS-67303])

> * Before this update, the `StatefulSet` controller didn't automatically repair pods when the `StatefulSet` definition got reverted to a valid  configuration after a roll-out brought the pods into a broken state. With this release, the Prometheus Operator has been configured to evict unready pods when it detects that there's a more recent revision of the `StatefulSet`. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-78976[OCPBUGS-78976])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Before this update, the `StatefulSet` controller did not automatically repair pods when the `StatefulSet` definition got reverted to a valid  configuration after a roll-out brought the pods into a broken state. With this release, the Prometheus Operator has been configured to evict unready pods when it detects that there is a more recent revision of the `StatefulSet` controller. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-78976[OCPBUGS-78976])
```

Author: Done
